Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
So in the last lecture we covered the best
practices for reaching out to your network.
Your network is any group of people
you can contact and get a response from.
Yes, you do have a network, and there is a way to
do it without feeling like a complete spammer.
Now, I know a lot of you out there have
trouble connecting this to actually doing it.
It's one thing to just say "contact them with these best
practices" and it's another thing to actually see it.
So that's what we're going to do in this lecture,
we're going to practice writing that e-mail.
So let's get to work constructing our message. Remember,
we have a list and it's made up of different types of people.
Number one, it's people that we have contacted
recently, as in as soon as six months ago.
Number two, it's people that don't club baby seals
for fun. Number three, it's people who are remotely
relevant to what you're doing, remotely
relevant. Now, to get this started,
as we've suggested prior, we're going to whip out an
email. Open up a Gmail, Apple Mail, or invent a time
machine, go back to the 90s and open up a Hotmail.
If any of you have taken any of my other courses,
you probably remember the three tenants of cold emailing.
Now, in this exercise, we're not exactly cold emailing,
because they know you, so it wouldn't be cold, but
they're not all going to be your best friend from forever,
so it's kind of like lukewarm emailing. But it's worth
a refresher on those tenants, because those cold
emailing principles are going to
help us pretty much the same here.
Now, there were three of them.
One was that you have to keep it short, two was you
have to make sure that the email is personalized,
and number three, you have to make sure it explicitly
lays out how it might be valuable to them.
In this case, we follow the first two rules religiously,
but the last one isn't completely necessary, because
the dynamic is a little bit different, and if you do
it wrong, it almost sounds like you're trying to
sell it to them and convince them it's
going to help them, and it's not necessary.
Now, the first thing, like always,
is going to be your subject line.
In this case, the person we are emailing presumably
is open to receiving email and will open regardless,
so there's really no sense in
writing "I'M ON FIRE" in all caps.
Since the stakes here are low, there are
really a lot of different ways to do this.
I personally would suggest you write something that
refers to you or uses a personal pronoun and sounds
like you are merely updating them on your life.
No, I don't mean "Re: That talk we had," I mean
something like "My new project" or "My new business."
What I would not suggest doing is something like
"Checking in," because that's almost kind of like a Trojan
horse email, where they think they're going to check in,
but really you're just loading their computer up with malware.
The point is, you don't want that mismatch between what
they think the email is and what it actually ends up being,
because that's what comes off as disingenuous.
Also, on a similar token, I wouldn't
suggest saying something like,
"Need your help," because it signals you might need
actual help, which could be misconstrued or it could
actually deter people from opening the email.
It's a sad fact, but true.
They might not open it if they think it's
going to then ask them to do something.
OK, so go with whatever makes sense to you.
Just don't mislead them as to what's in the actual body
of the email and don't scream that you need help.
All right, so in the actual body of the email
we need to start off in a personal way.
If you opened an email, even if it was from one
of your friends, and the first line was trying to sell
you beef jerky, well, you wouldn't be thrilled about
it, even if it was your friend and even if you really
did like beef jerky. The best thing I would suggest doing
is one of a number of things. You could mention
something about the last time you connected,
and if you can't remember, just try to look it up.
You could throw in a personal anecdote.
"Hey, remember that knee slapper of
a joke John told about killing his wife?"
Mention that. If you know of something they did and
something that they would also remember, well then try
to mention that - a vacation, a promotion, a change in job,
a child, whatever. Do any number of these things, but
make sure you open briefly with something personal
that you can actually connect on.
I'm talking 2-3 sentences short, and by
the way, just saying "Hope all is well" -
come on, that's just way too lazy.
You know you can do better.
OK, so that is paragraph number one.
You are reminding them that you care enough
to contact them and you're getting some
"Hey, this isn't an automated email blast"
out of the way. Onto paragraph number two.
Here's where we turn a little bit and start
introducing what we've been working on.
I personally would start with a sentence that
connects your business to them in some way.
Do you remember when we were talking about [...]?
Do you remember that company we talked about?
If you think hard enough, there's always
something you can tie in here.
Do you remember how much I love beef jerky?
Well, let me remind you.
I'm actually pretty impartial to beef jerky.
The point here is that you don't want to merely write
2-3 sentence of personalized "How are you doing?"
and then copy and paste your business or project
description right after that. You're not really going
to carry them over to the next paragraph,
and again, you just sound like a cheese ball.
So segue a little by introducing some relevance, then
explain what you're doing. Now, here's a word about tone.
Don't lose sight of the fact that you
are talking to a friend/acquaintance.
This is not a blog post, so write
the way that you specifically would speak to that person.
You speak differently to different people, unless
of course that's just me and I should be
having an existential crisis right now.
No, I think I'm good. Past that, just keep it simple.
Don't introduce jargon that they wouldn't
understand. If they're in the industry, then
OK, well, you can get away with it.
But if they're not, well, you
reasonably have to tone it down.
I generally like to do it like this.
Number one, I like to give them a summarized sentence
of what my business or product or project is and
attach it in a way like, "I started [...]."
"I went ahead and made [...]."
Number two, give them the latest news.
"I just sold 100 widgets. Just went live.
Just got the site done."
Then try to round it out with any accolades you can
mention that might make it a little more noteworthy
without sounding like you're just bragging.
"It's pretty cool. I was featured here."
"It was bought by X amount of people and X amount of countries."
"Got a sale with the Fortune 100 beef jerky company."
Now, in the last paragraph, we're
probably at 7-10 sentences by now,
you just want to bring this home and again connect it
back to the person and try your best to articulate
why they should care.
It could be as simple as "Hey, I respect your advice.
Can you give me some feedback?" or "What do you
think?" or it could just be something specific to how this
might benefit them in some kind of vague way.
Really just try to get creative here.
The point is that there's really some currency to be
exchanged here, so don't waste the opportunity. Asking
people for their advice,
believe it or not, makes them feel like you care
about their opinion, even if it's not true at all.
This is also your opportunity to put
in some form of a call to action.
"Hey, can you look at this?"
"What do you think about this?"
"Do you know anyone who would be interested in this?"
OK, so it's really quite simple.
2-3 sentences getting mushy and personal,
3-4 sentences saying what you're doing, what's
changed, or what's new, and what you're doing right,
then wrap it up with two sentences or so calling them to
do something or just reminding them why they might care.
Cool? Okay.
It's actually quite easy.
Just open up your email and honestly try it out.
To give you guys a quick example of a bad version
of a cold email to your network, we'll run through
one I actually found today real quick.
This is one from a site called Ladder.io and it's a good
reminder why the internet is not made of all great things.
It goes something like this.
"Hey Dave, I'm selling premium dog biscuits on a subscription
for $50/month, taking 20 pre-orders at that price.
PayPal me $50 at example@email.com if you want in.
Know anybody else that would be interested?
Feel free to forward this email.
Any questions? Just hit reply."
Yes, that is an actual example template that
was actually suggested by someone.
There's no personalization, no mention of our relationship,
and not even the broadest attempt to explain
why I might care about doggy biscuits.
Does he think everyone cares about said doggy biscuits?
Like I'm going to flip my desk right
now and run to my wallet
because you said doggy biscuits.
And then the next part is obviously just wow.
No justification of why it's great or interesting, no
description of the product, and seriously he's using
that pre-order limit trick for his friends. 20 orders and
what? The world can't supply 21 one dog biscuit bags?
Seriously Dave, you're number 21. Sorry, get lost.
OK, I think you get the point.
We really don't need to dive in any more
to explain why that one is just awful.
It's brief,
yes, but there's no personal touch, and you can kind of tell
by the tone of this that the writer probably despises Dave.
Whatever he did, we can only imagine.
OK, so you got the tools, you know what to do,
open up your email client and get started.
If you're stuck, post in a Slack group.
Otherwise, I'll see you in the next lecture.